REAMDE: update (#65)
bwesterb/mtc: README.md

Implementation of [Merkle Tree Certificates for TLS](
    https://davidben.github.io/merkle-tree-certs/draft-davidben-tls-merkle-tree-certs.html)

>     in Go. This contains a Certification Authority (CA), mirror, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    in Go. This contains a Certification Authority (CA), Mirror, and
```

Now we create an assertion that this P-256 public key should
be valid for `example.com` and `198.51.100.60`, and write it to
the `my-asr`.

```
$ mtc new-assertion-request --tls-pem p256.pub --dns example.com --ip4 198.51.100.60 -o my-asr
```

Let's check it using `mtc inspect`:

```
$ ./mtc inspect assertion-request my-asr
checksum         2024bdbffe399acca37d299a03c047aa33ef596ae471c17698a0566d00951bd9
not_after        unset
subject_type     TLS
signature_scheme p256
public_key_hash  20b57b9c55dab26db14fb6cc801b7d7294cbf448abb1196e1ffc19d73013498a
dns              [example.com]
ip4              [198.51.100.60]
evidence-list (0 entries)
```

An assertion request can contain two bits of extra information besides

> the assertion itself. First is a `not_after` field to request to limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the assertion itself. First is a `not_after` field that limits
```

the validity of the assertion when published.
The second is optional "evidence" that's published alongside the

> assertions. In the future this could be used for serialized DNSSEC proofs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assertions. In the future this could also be used for serialized DNSSEC proofs.
```

Author: Rephrased

### Batches, merkle trees and signed validity windows

> An MTC CA doesn't give you a certificate for an assertion request immediately.

Reviewer: We've started to write this in internal docs
```suggestion
An MTCA doesn't give you a certificate for an assertion request immediately.
```

$ mtc ca new --batch-duration 5m --lifetime 1h 62253.12.15 ca.example.com/path
```

This creates a new MTC CA in the current working directory. It's configured

> to issue a batch every 5 minutes, and for each batch to be valid for an hour.

Reviewer: We should note here that 5 minutes is smaller than the batch duration we expect to see in prod (~hour?)

Author: Done

./signing.key
./www
./www/mtc
./www/mtc/v04b
./www/mtc/v04b/ca-params

> ./www/mtc/v04b/batches

Reviewer: What does the "b" stand for?

Reviewer: Ack! "v04-dirty" might be better :)

```
$ mtc inspect ca-params www/mtc/v04b/ca-params
issuer                 62253.12.15
start_time             1745415825 2025-04-23 13:43:45 +0000 UTC
batch_duration         300        5m0s
life_time              3600       1h0m0s
storage_window_size    24         2h0m0s
validity_window_size   12
server_prefix          ca.example.com/path
public_key fingerprint ml-dsa-87:52f3488ca58a51a3d8d4b5d054828e5ebcc3767a0732da374f608f766cf8bad2
```

The `batches` folder is empty, because there are no batches issued yet.

The `queue` file contains the assertion requests that will be fulfilled
during the next issuance.

### Issuing our first batch

Let's issue our first assertion. We can read the assertion request from disk we've
created earlier with `mtc new-assertion-request`:

```
$ mtc ca queue -i my-asr 
$ mtc ca show-queue
checksum         3241885a438bd82f21d193fe7be9e87a24f5b6aac899bd780b1604da0ec39f48
not_after        2025-04-23 14:48:44 +0000 UTC
subject_type     TLS
signature_scheme p256
public_key_hash  20b57b9c55dab26db14fb6cc801b7d7294cbf448abb1196e1ffc19d73013498a
dns              [example.com]
ip4              [198.51.100.60]

> evidence-list (0 entries)

Reviewer 2: We should add a tab here, maybe
```suggestion
evidence-list (0 entries)
```

subject_type     TLS
signature_scheme p256
public_key_hash  20b57b9c55dab26db14fb6cc801b7d7294cbf448abb1196e1ffc19d73013498a
dns              [example.com]
ip4              [198.51.100.60]
evidence-list (0 entries)

Total number of assertion requests in queue: 2
```

Let's issue our first batch.

```
$ mtc ca issue   
2025/04/23 15:50:58 INFO Starting issuance time=2025-04-23T13:50:58.023Z
2025/04/23 15:50:58 INFO Current state expectedStored=0,1 expectedActive=0,1 existingBatches=⌀
2025/04/23 15:50:58 INFO To issue batches=0,1
```

And let's check:

```
$ find .
```
.
./signing.key
./www
./www/mtc
./www/mtc/v04b
./www/mtc/v04b/ca-params
./www/mtc/v04b/batches
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0/validity-window
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0/tree
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0/entries
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0/evidence
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/0/index
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/latest
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1/validity-window
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1/tree
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1/entries
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1/evidence
./www/mtc/v04b/batches/1/index
./queue
./tmp
```

We see an `0` and `1` batch have been created. `latest` is a symlink to `1`.

> Because we waited more than 5 minutes between creating the CA,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we waited more than 5 minutes between creating the CA
```

```

This is indeed the root of batch `1`, and so this certificate is valid.

### Run CA as server

An Merkle Tree CA can be run just from the commandline, but it's often
more convenient to run it as a server. To start the server, run:

```
$ mtc ca serve -listen-addr localhost:8080
```

This will accept HTTP requests on `localhost:8080` and serve the static
files. It will also accept queue requests; periodically issue new batches;
and return issued certificates.

Get and inspect CA parameters.

```
$ curl -s "http://localhost:8080/mtc/v04b/ca-params" -o ca-params
$ mtc inspect ca-params ca-params
issuer                 62253.12.15
start_time             1745415825 2025-04-23 13:43:45 +0000 UTC
batch_duration         300        5m0s
life_time              3600       1h0m0s
storage_window_size    24         2h0m0s
validity_window_size   12
server_prefix          ca.example.com/path
public_key fingerprint ml-dsa-87:52f3488ca58a51a3d8d4b5d054828e5ebcc3767a0732da374f608f766cf8bad2
```

Queue up the assertion created in above.

```
$ curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/ca/queue" --data-binary "@my-asr" -w "%{http_code}"
200
```

> After it's been issued, we can get the certificate via the `/ca/cert` endpoint:

Reviewer: Does this need a version?
```suggestion
After it's been issued, we can get the certificate via the `/ca/cert/v04b` endpoint:
```
